---
date: 2019-04-04 12:26:40
layout: post
title: Public health expressions in the  context of Mexican urban expansion.
subtitle: Allergic rhinitis hospital discharges in metropolitan areas..
description: Rhinitis (J31), is a global public health problem of growing incidence that often has been associated to factors such as the population transition to urban areas (González-Díaz et al. 2016), particularly considering environmental externalities linked to air quality that urbanization processes generate.
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/joseluismanzanaresrivera/image/upload/v1584403370/PLACAS2_elycb9.jpg
optimized_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/joseluismanzanaresrivera/image/upload/v1584403370/PLACAS2_elycb9.jpg
category: Rhinitis
tags:
  - Air quality
  - Pollution
author: José Luis Manzanares Rivera
---
The term **Rhinitis** describes a disease characterized by an inflammation of the nasal mucosa. Unleashed by an immune system overreaction against particular trigger factors. 

Symptoms can evolve taking a chronic or acute pattern. As well as appear in an intermittent fashion (Rombaux & Hellings 2014).

Complications related to this health condition in the group of chronic inferior respiratory airways problems, include diseases with a high impact on life quality of the family as well as considered as high management cost such as allergic asthma, **(J450)** (Gutiérrez-Cardona et al. 2017).

Or comorbidities that affect superior airways including diseases such as chronic sinusitis **(J329)**, chronic adenoiditis, **(J350)**, chronic tonsillitis and adenoiditis **(J352)**, Hypertrophy of tonsils with hypertrophy of adenoids **(J353)**, Sleep apnea **(G473)**, whose social cost represents a growing area of attention for applied research. 

Considering that Latin America as a region has seen a dynamic demographic expansion towards the urban space parallel to an increase of these respiratory morbidly conditions, there has been an interest by the scientific community in the region to conduct studies to provide evidence for better understanding of this relationship (Bedolla-Barajas et al. 2018).



> Despite, recent advances in the urban studies domain and the theoretical construction of analytic categories about **metropolitan areas** in Mexico. From a pure empirical perspective, there are challenges specific to demographic process that occur in these spaces, that is the case of public health dynamics, where administrative limits inherit to the territorial configuration of cities are surpassed. In particular considering the effects of environmental pollutants that affect basic life elements such as air.






[Get free acces to report](https://rinitis-alergica-mexico.netlify.com/introducci%C3%B3n/)


