---
date: 2019-05-12T19:17:18.000Z
layout: post
title: Reliable information to improve health care outcomes. 
subtitle: Turning data into valuable knowledge.  Explore health trends overtime and it's geographic patterns.
description:  Insight4health provides a platform to analyze public health trends in  Mexico's Northern  border. This app incorporates data science tools that transforms data from several sources into detailed input for acurate decision making. A public effort from El Colegio de la Frontera Norte, Nogales to disseminate research that targets to improve the health conditions of the population in the region.   
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/joseluismanzanaresrivera/image/upload/v1584335391/pankaj-patel-u2Ru4QBXA5Q-unsplash_g8d5xn.jpg
optimized_image:  https://res.cloudinary.com/joseluismanzanaresrivera/image/upload/v1584319458/markus-spiske-466ENaLuhLY-unsplash_jfexxi.jpg
category: Data Science
tags:
  - Big data
  - Public Health
  - Health economics
author: José Luis Manzanares Rivera
paginate: false
---
**Insight4health** provides a platform to analyze public health trends in  Mexico's Nothern  border. Currently the US Mexico border  region  represent a huge emerging market in terms of health care information. The project **Insight4health** incorporates data science tools that transforms data from several sources, both  public and private, into detailed input for acurate decision making.

>  *Generating evidence that contributes to design strategies to efficiently allocate resources is a permanent task that is relevant particularly when dealing with high cost diseases. Having access to reliable information becomes key to achieve this goal*.

## Unleash data science potential to analyze public health patterns.    

We incorporate a data driven approach to discover health trends. The project **I4H** specializes in Mexico´s health conditions at a regional scale.   Reports generated by insight4health are inputs to guide market strategies to tackle health care demands, particularly targeting preventive measures.

In **I4H** at El Colegio de la Frontera Norte, helping health care provides to achieve an efficient allocation of resources is key premise, so we emphasize the cost implications of public health conditions from a regional perspective.

Where to target the scarce  public resources to hire particular medical specialists, or implement control measures to reduce health disparities among the population requires a knowledge base decision framework.

Detecting whether a particular disease is occurring as an emerging trend or is a result of a long-term pattern may contribute to the decision-making process for the health care environment. 

From a theoretical stand point, social and environmental determinants of health represent key areas of research that explain important risk factors for many health conditions including some types of cancer and current epidemic diseases such as type II diabetes.

Applying data sciences tools to explore these connections is a relevant feature of the **insight4health** approach. We consider that time and space may contribute to understand *the causes of the causes* of desease. 

So, we invite you to benefit from insight4health analysis.  Having access to current, reliable information means value.  Try this iniciative from El Colegio de la Frontera Norte, Try **insight4health**!  


**Insight4health** was created by  [José Luis Manzanares Rivera](https://www.colef.mx/posgrado/profesores/borrador-automatico-31/) as an effort to disseminate public research in the Health economics domain at the Arizona-Sonora border.  

